# OpenAI Case Study 
### Overview and Origin 
Open AI is a private research organization focused on creating and guiding artificial inteligence (A.I.) to serve the greater good of humanity. The company was established by Elon Musk, Sam Altman, Ilya Sutskever, and others in 2015 **(Hashemi-Pour)**. The company was established with two main goals in mind. The first being that the founders's had deep concerns about the possibility of artificial inteligence being used in a potentially harmful or damaging fashion. The second being to continue developing and advancing A.I. into the future, with the goal of continuing to progress and enchance its potential to assist us in our everyday lives **(Hashemi-Pour)**. The declared purpose of the company to strive for the development of a safe and secure future as A.I. grows is made apparent by their willingess to openly work with other research groups and individuals in the field.
OpenAI was initially funded by the group of technology industry giants who founded the organization - commiting one billions dollars to the project. In 2019, the company shifted from a non-profit model to a "capped-profit" model **(OpenAI)**. After receiving north of 130 millions dollars from donations in the 3 years since its inception, leadership was able to determine that this non-profit model would not allow the company the resources or capital to ensure that it would continue to be able to keep up with the cost of computational abilities, and pay for the talent required to continue moving the company forward. In essence, this new for-profit branch would be essential for the company to continue growing **(Upstock)**. OpenAI has ensured that this branch would be guided solely by the non-profit branch **(OpenAI)**. In this same year, OpenAI gained a partnership with Microsoft, who pledged a 1 billion dollar donation. In early 2023, the company received a valuation of $29 billions dollars, this figure had doubled from just two years prior **(O'Neil,2023)**. Months later, Microsoft and PwC pledged an additional $10 bilion dollars. Sources report that OpenAI has received a sum of $11.3 billion dollars over 7 different rounds of funding **(Tracxn)**. 
### Business Activities 
A prominent concern that has emerged in the past decade with the advancement and prolfieration of AI is the potential for it to become misaligned with human morals and ethics **(OpenAI)**. Founding members of OpenAI had this in the front of their mind when the decision was made to create OpenAI. According to one article on **(enlyft)**, OpenAI has a broad range of customers.
This list includes, but is not limited to, companies in Information and Technology Services, Computer Software , Higher Education, Internet, Marketing and Advertising and Financial Services. OpenAI currently serves more than 10,000 customers, and is estimated to hold about 17.68% of the market share - ranking it 3rd in it's field **(6sense)**. Almost half of OpenAI's customers reside in the U.S., followed by India and the U.K., with about one-tenth as many customers as the U.S. in each country respectively **(enlyft)**. 
OpenAI has a number of distinguising features and abilities that set it apart from it's competition, mostly relating to the outstanding quality of the generative AI they have curated. According to staff at **(No Jitter, 2024)** "OpenAI’s models can automate knowledge-based tasks in ways that were previously impossible. It can also handle complex tasks like data analysis, report generation and content creation. The automation of rote tasks may help free up humans for more creative, strategic and empathetic roles". OpenAI's LLM's are as efficient as any currently on the market. Customers of OpenAI also benefit from it's technology being extremely customizable at scale, allowing their customers to automate a portion of it's labor in a way that makes their interactions with customers engaging **(No Jitter, 2024)**. OpenAI is also exceptional at streamlining business tasks and operations, "OpenAI offers a number of inbuilt ML algorithms and pre-trained natural language models capable of automating repetitive tasks, streamlining business operations, and generating human-like texts more efficiently. OpenAI can perform a comprehensive range of tasks, such as text summarization, image recognition, and sentiment analysis. GPT-3 and GPT-4 are the latest OpenAI tools based on Natural Language Processing, which can identify different language patterns and reply to customer queries automatically in no time" **(Trivedi,2023)**. By implementing OpenAI's natural language models effectively, organizations can greatly reduce the amount of time and financial resources required to fulfill customer demands. OpenAI uses dozens of technologies to build their products and services. The programming language most commonly utilized by OpenAI is Python, according to their **(Github)** page. OpenAI used a number of technologies for things like version control, code testing, and the building and deployment of code. Some of these technologies include Github, Kubernetes, and Terraform **(himalayas)**. OpenAI also utilizes a number of collaboration technologies like Slack, Microsoft365, and Google Workspace **(himalayas)**. 
### Landscape of AI Development and Research
OpenAI is a self-declared "research and deployment" company **(OpenAI)**. In the last decade, OpenAI's largest focus has been developing artificial general intelligence (AGI) for the betterment of humanity. According to **(Bernard Marr,2024)**, "Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) is among the holy grail goals of AI development". AGI is a form of artificial inteligence which posseses the ability to act and think like a human being. The industry has been working on developing this AGI, because of it's ability to perform any task it is being asked to do, rather than receiving detailed guidance on the process. Most narrow AI is programmed to complete and improve at a single task. The devlopement of AGI has probably been the biggest trend in the field in the last 5 - 10 years. Another trand in the field of AI has been the drive to creating multimodal models. These models have the ability to use a number of different data types as input **(Bergmann)**. According to **(Bergmann)**, "The most immediate benefit of multimodal AI is more intuitive, versatile AI applications and virtual assistants. Users can, for example, ask about an image and receive a natural language answer, or ask out loud for instructions to repair something and receive visual aids alongside step-by-step text instructions.". OpenAI has been a front runner in creating some of the most advanced generative AI models. With their products CHAT-GPT (text generative), and DALL-E (image generative). These models operate with an extremely wide range of date input, increasing their ability to train with such information. Other companies who are currently working in the field of researching and deploying AI are IBM, Google, Microsoft, and Amazon Web Services. In recent years, most large tech companies have begun concentrating resources in order to prioritize their research and development of AI. 
### Results
OpenAI has played a large role in influencing the use of AI amongst other businesses and organizations. Fields like healthcare, retail, and finance have shifted due to OpenAI's contributions to the advancement of this technology. According to one article on Linkenin, presented by **(Visvero**). "Businesses in the healthcare sector can utilize Open AI to enhance diagnostic accuracy and patient care, streamline administrative tasks, and facilitate medical research. Open AI’s natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning capabilities can analyze vast amounts of medical data, aiding in quicker and more accurate diagnoses." The expanded capabilties of these healthcare organizations from the use of technology provided by OpenAI have given medical professionals an enhanced ability to save lives. One fantsastic example of this is how Mayo Clinic has instilled OpenAI's Chat-GPT3 model into their diagnostic capabilities **(Visvero)**. If you've been to a retail store or market in the last couple of years, it's already become apparent to most that AI has vastly improved the customer experience. Retail entities have begun utilizing OpenAI's technology to deliver customized shopping experiences, streamline the purchasing process, and make extremely personal customer recommendations **(Visvero)**. Similar to any other business, the success of OpenAI is ultimately determined by the results it produces. There are key, tangible, metrics that organizations like OpenAI and their customers are paying attention to while implementing their AI technologies. One article produced by **(Acacia Advisors)** claims that the four most important ways for a company to measure the success of the AI technology they are utilzing are efficiency, accuracy, performance, and financial impact. OpenAI is an industry leader in all of these regards. 
